Potentiometrically measured ionized calcium (Ca2+) was compared with total and albumin corrected S-Calcium and calculated Ca2+ in serum samples from blood donors and patients, for whom a request of S-Calcium has been made. Total S-Calcium, Ca2+ and S-Albumin in donors conformed with a simple mass law equation with a mean KCaAlb = 95 l/mol, whereas apparent albumin binding affinity rose with decreasing S-Albumin in patients (due to rise of other calcium binding proteins) with resulting overestimation of albumin corrected and particularly of calculated Ca2+. The frequency and severity of hypoalbuminaemia in patients make calculated Ca2+ unreliable and albumin corrected S-Calcium the clinically most satisfactory routinely practicable substitute for direct Ca2+ measurement.
Chronic investigations (up to 3 years) conducted in dogs have evidenced that periodic disturbances of vascular permeability produced by using dicoumarin with a long-term blocking of the thyroid function greatly aggravate pathological manifestations induced by the action of 6-methylthiouracil. They result in the development in the animals of endogenous hypercholesterinemia, elevated content in the blood of beta-lipoproteins and in a periodic rise of the arterial pressure. These changes were particularly spectacular at the final stage of the experiment in animals with marked manifestations of atherosclerosis and were accompanied by reduced stand-by potentialities of the adrenal gland, disruption of metabolic processes in the myocardium along with the slowed down resorption of NaI131 from the heart muscle. The sensitivity of the heart to adrenalin was down too.
The immunologic relations between mother, foetus and placenta are discussed and those antigens of the human placenta already characterized by their physico-chemical and immunochemical properties described. In diagnostics the detection and determination of placental proteins is used in pregnancy tests, for the evaluation of placental functions and the detection of malignant diseases. Antibodies to placental antigens have an abortive effect; immunization against placental specific proteins may have implications as an immunologic contraceptive method and for the immunotherapy of choriocarcinoma.
The immunologic relationships of mother, fetus and placenta are discussed, and the human placental antigens already characterized by their physico-chemical and immunological properties are described.  The detection and determination of placental proteins is used in pregnancy tests, for the evaluation of placental function, and in the diagnosis of malignant disease.  Antibodies to placental antigens have an abortive effect; immunization against placental specific proteins may have implications as an immunologic contraceptive method and for the immunotherapy of choriocarcinoma.

